# 

Welcome to the developer documentation for Walrus, a decentralized storage and data availability protocol designed specifically for large binary files, or "blobs". Walrus focuses on providing a robust but affordable solution for storing unstructured content on decentralized storage nodes while ensuring high availability and reliability even in the presence of Byzantine faults.

Fun fact

[](#admonition-fun-fact)

If you are viewing this site at <https://docs.walrus.site>, you are fetching this from Walrus behind the scenes. See the  for further details on how this works.

Disclaimer about the Walrus Testnet

[](#admonition-disclaimer-about-the-walrus-testnet)

The current Testnet release of Walrus and Walrus Sites is a preview intended to showcase the technology and solicit feedback from builders, users, and storage-node operators. All transactions are executed on the Sui Testnet and use Testnet WAL and SUI which have no value. The state of the store **can and will be wiped** at any point and possibly with no warning. Do not rely on this Testnet for any production purposes, it comes with no availability or persistence guarantees.

Furthermore, encodings and blob IDs may be incompatible with the future Testnet and Mainnet, and developers will be responsible for migrating any Testnet applications and data to Mainnet. Detailed migration guides will be provided when Mainnet becomes available.

Also see the  under which this Testnet is made available.

Public access

[](#admonition-public-access)

**All blobs stored in Walrus are public and discoverable by all.** Therefore you must not use Walrus to store anything that contains secrets or private data without additional measures to protect confidentiality.

Discontinuation of Walrus Devnet

[](#admonition-discontinuation-of-walrus-devnet)

The previous Walrus Devnet instance is now deprecated and **will be shut down after 2024-10-31**. All data stored on Walrus Devnet (including Walrus Sites) will no longer be accessible at that point. You need to re-upload all data to Walrus Testnet if you want it to remain accessible. Walrus Sites also need to be migrated as described on the dedicated [migration page](./walrus-sites/tutorial-migration.html).

## 

Walrus's architecture ensures that content remains accessible and retrievable even when many storage nodes are unavailable or malicious. Under the hood it uses modern error correction techniques based on fast linear fountain codes, augmented to ensure resilience against Byzantine faults, and a dynamically changing set of storage nodes. The core of Walrus remains simple, and storage node management and blob certification leverages Sui smart contracts.

## 

This documentation is split into several parts:

## 

This documentation is built using  from source files in <https://github.com/MystenLabs/walrus-docs/>. Please report or fix any errors you find in this documentation in that GitHub project.