# Walrus

# 

## 

Walrus stores blobs across storage nodes in an , and refers to blobs by their _blob ID_. The blob ID is deterministically derived from the content of a blob and the Walrus configuration. The blob ID of two files with the same content will be the same.

You can derive the blob ID of a file locally using the command: `walrus blob-id <file path>`.

## 

Walrus may be used to **store a blob** , via the native client APIs or a publisher.

Public access

**All blobs stored in Walrus are public and discoverable by all.** Therefore you must not use Walrus to store anything that contains secrets or private data without additional measures to protect confidentiality.

Under the hood a number of operations happen both on Sui as well as on storage nodes:

A blob is considered available on Walrus once the corresponding Sui blob object has been certified in the final step. The steps involved in a store operation can be executed by the binary client, or a publisher that accepts and publishes blobs via HTTP.

Walrus currently allows the storage of blobs up to a maximum size that may be determined through the  CLI command. The maximum blob size is currently 13.3 GiB. You may store larger blobs by splitting them into smaller chunks.

Blobs are stored for a certain number of _epochs_ , as specified at the time they were stored. Walrus storage nodes ensure that within these epochs a read succeeds. The current Testnet uses a short epoch duration of one day for testing purposes, but Mainnet epochs are likely to be longer such as many weeks each.

## 

Walrus can also be used to **read a blob** after it is stored by providing its blob ID. A read is executed by performing the following steps:

The steps involved in the read operation are performed by the binary client, or the aggregator service that exposes an HTTP interface to read blobs. Reads are extremely resilient and will succeed in recovering the blob in all cases even if up to one-third of storage nodes are unavailable. In most cases, after synchronization is complete, blob can be read even if two-thirds of storage nodes are down.

## 

Walrus can be used to **certify the availability of a blob** using Sui. Checking that this happened may currently be done in 3 different ways:

The underlying protocol of the  returns digitally signed evidence for emitted events or objects, and can be used by off-line or non-interactive applications as a proof of availability for the blob ID for a certain number of epochs.

Once a blob is certified, Walrus will ensure that sufficient slivers will always be available on storage nodes to recover it within the specified epochs.

## 

Stored blobs can be optionally set as deletable by the user that creates them. This metadata is stored in the Sui blob object, and whether a blob is deletable or not is included in certified blob events. A deletable blob may be deleted by the owner of the blob object, to reclaim and re-use the storage resource associated with it.

If no other copies of the blob exist in Walrus, deleting a blob will eventually make it unrecoverable using read commands. However, if other copies of the blob exist on Walrus, a delete command will reclaim storage space for the user that invoked it, but will not make the blob unavailable until all other copies have been deleted or expire.